ChesStream
==========

Analytic Chess Learning Tool

ChesStream is designed to recognize areas of improvement in a player's game.  This is accomplished by identifying patterns within a collection of a player's archived games.

At its most basic this is a project of automation, since the patterns being identified are fairly trivial (if they were not, the user would have difficulty fixing them) and thus recognizable by humans.  However, it could take a human an hour or more to analyze a single game thoroughly and this exludes any cross-referencing between games, which would surely take longer and require exponentially more time as the number of games increased.

The current goal of the program is to read a .pgn file generated by chess.com and search it for blunders.  The nature of these blunders will then be analyzed and recorded.

Analysis is conducted with Stockfish 64.  Currently ChessBoard v2.05 by John Eriksson is used to maintain an operable board object for converting notation to later pass to the engine.

My vision is to develop this into an all-inclusive facility -- given a collection of games the program will tell you exactly where your faults lie, as well as your strengths, and provide examples from within the games, thus explaining its "reasoning".  To the best of my knowledge and research, no product like this currently exists, leaving a hole in the Chess-education landscape.  It surprises me that no one has thought to look at collections of games rather than individual games.  Does nobody agree that there is value in treating a player's history as an entity to be learned from, rather than a collection of discrete elements?  We shall see.